# Learn HTML

1. HyperText Markup Language, or HTML, is the backbone of the web, providing the content, as well as the structure of that content, that we see displayed in our web browser.
2. HTML is the content layer of the web. HTML elements are the nodes that make up the Document Object Model.
3. `Cascading Style Sheets` provide the look and feel, or presentation layer of the page. `JavaScript` is the behavior layer, often used to manipulate the objects within a document. Sites that are built with JavaScript frameworks are really just manipulating HTML.
4. In turn, it's important to mark up our HTML in a way that scripts can easily parse and that assistive technologies can easily understand. This means writing HTML code with modern standards.  


Topic references, such as:  

1.MDN (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/)  

2.WHATWG (https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/)  

Contents Overview:  


Overview of :
A brief introduction to the key concepts in HTML.

Document structure :
Learn how to structure our HTML documents with a solid foundation.

Metadata :
How to use meta tags to provide information about our documents.

Semantic HTML :
Using the correct HTML elements to describe our document content.

Headings and sections :
How to correctly use sectioning elements to give meaning to our content.

Attributes :
Learn about the different global attributes along with attributes specific to particular HTML elements.

Text basics :
How to format text using HTML.

Links :
Everything we need to know about links.

Lists :
Lists and other ways of grouping our content.

Navigation :
Navigation is a key element of any site of application, and it starts with HTML.

Tables :
Understanding how to use tables to mark up tabular data.

Forms :
An overview of forms in HTML.

Images :
An overview of images in HTML.

Audio and Video :
Discover how to work with HTML media such as audio and video.

Template, slot, and shadow :
An explanation of template, slot, and shadow.

HTML APIs :
We will learn how HTML information can be exposed and manipulated using JavaScript.

Focus :
How to manage focus order in your HTML documents.

Other inline text elements :
An introduction to the range of elements used to mark-up text.

Details and summary :
Discover how the very useful details and summary elements work, and where to use them.

Dialog :
The `<dialog>` element is a useful element for representing any kind of dialog in HTML, find out how it works.

Conclusion and next steps :
Wrapping up with some further resources.