# 2. Overview of HTML

HyperText Markup Language, or HTML, is the standard markup language for describing the structure of documents displayed on the web. HTML consists of a series of elements and attributes which are used to mark up all the components of a document to structure it in a meaningful way.

HTML documents are basically a tree of nodes, including HTML elements and text nodes. HTML elements provide the semantics and formatting for documents, including creating paragraphs, lists and tables, and embedding images and form controls. Each element may have multiple attributes specified. Many elements can have content, including other elements and text. Other elements are empty, with the tag and attributes defining their function.

There are several categories of elements, including metadata, sectioning, text, inline semantic, form, interactive, media, component, and scripting. We'll cover most of these in the series. But first, what is an element?

Elements: HTML consists of a series of elements, which you use to enclose, or wrap, different parts of the content to make it appear or act in a certain way. HTML elements are delineated by tags, written using angle brackets `(< and >)`.  

Our page title is a heading, level one, for which we use the `<h1>` tag. 

`<opening-tag>CONTENT</closing-tag> == Element`  

The closing tag is the same tag as the opening tag, preceded by a slash.

Elements and tags aren't the exact same thing, though many people use the terms interchangeably. The tag name is the content in the brackets. The tag includes the brackets. In this case, `<h1>.` An "element" is the opening and closing tags, and all the content between those tags, including nested elements.  

```html
<p>This paragraph has some
  <strong><em>strongly emphasized</em></strong>
  content</p>
```  

This paragraph element has other elements nested in it. When nesting elements, it's important that they are properly nested. HTML tags should be closed in the reverse order of which they were opened. In the above example, notice how the <em> is both opened and closed within the opening and closing <strong> tags, and the <strong> is both open and closed within the <p> tags.